TIP-1019: Subblocks v2 - Builder Delegation (#2434)
tempoxyz/tempo: tips/tip-1019.md

related: Subblock Specification, TIP-1009
protocolVersion: TBD
---

# TIP-1019: Subblocks v2 - Builder Delegation & Bundle Proposals

## Abstract

This TIP introduces major changes to the subblock system:

1. **Builder Delegation**: Validators delegate subblock production to a builder identified by an address. Multiple validators can delegate to the same builder, who accumulates their combined gas budget. The builder address is also the fee recipient for subblock fees.

2. **Builder P2P Keys**: Each physical builder machine has its own ed25519 key registered under the builder address in the SubblockRegistry (max 4 per builder). These keys serve dual purpose: commonware p2p authentication and subblock signing.

3. **Bundle Proposal Model**: The builder signs a SubBlock containing **all proposed transactions** (of any format). The proposer processes the bundle in order — executing valid transactions, **dropping** precheck-invalid ones, and optionally **truncating** overflow beyond the gas budget. Dropped and unprocessed transactions are placed in the SubBlockMetadata system transaction so validators can reconstruct the original signed SubBlock and verify the builder's signature.

> 4. **Any Transaction Format**: Subblock transactions are not restricted to the `0x5b` nonce key format. Standard Ethereum transactions (EIP-1559, etc.) and Tempo AA transactions are allowed. The `0x5b` nonce key remains available as an **optional** mechanism for nonce isolation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Any Transaction Format**: Subblock transactions are not restricted to the `0x5b` nonce key format. Standard Ethereum transactions (EIP-1559, etc.) and Tempo transactions are allowed. The `0x5b` nonce key remains available as an **optional** mechanism for a user for nonce isolation and to ensure that a transaction can only be included in that validator's subblock.
```
